Balanced ternary addition using a gated silicon nanowire

J.A. Mola,b, J. van der Heijdenb, J. Verduijna,b, M. Kleinc, F. Remaclec,d and S. Roggea,b



a. Centre for Quantum Computation & Communication Technology, School of

Physics, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia

b. Kavli Institute of Nanoscience, Delft University of Technology, Lorentzweg 1,

2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands

c. The Fritz Haber Research Center for Molecular Dynamics, The Hebrew University

of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91904, Israel

d. Département de Chimie, B6c, Université de Liège, B4000 Liège, Belgium




(Dated: August 24, 2011)




Abstract

We demonstrate the proof of principle for a ternary adder using silicon metal-on-

insulator single electron transistors (SET). Gate dependent rectifying behavior of a

single electron transistor results in a robust three-valued output as a function of the

potential of the SET island. Mapping logical, ternary inputs to the three gates

controlling the potential of the SET island allows us to perform complex, inherently

ternary operations, on a single transistor.
Single electron transistors (SETs) are a promising candidate for the post-CMOS era1,

combining low power consumption and new device functionality. Many schemes

have been proposed and implemented23456, including schemes that go beyond Boolean

logic78. Non-Boolean, or multi-valued logic, reduces the number of operations

necessary for each calculation. However, there is a large basis that needs to be stored.

Hence, there is a trade off between the number of bits needed to encode information

and the distinct number of symbols the system can recognize. It can be shown that

three-valued, or ternary logic, is the optimum number in terms of cost of complexity9.

By using more than one gate for each SET the complexity of an operation performed

per transistor can be much greater than a simple switch. In addition silicon SETs have

been shown to exhibit gain or can be concatenated in SET/FET hybrid circuit that

exhibit gain453 and can operate up to room temperature1011.

Our MOSSET devices are fabricated on a standard CMOS platform and can therefore

readily be integrated within a very large scale integration (VLSI) environment. They

are fully compatible with the multi-billion dollar silicon CMOS industry.

In this paper we will demonstrate how charge quantization of a multi-gate silicon

MOS-SET can be utilized to perform the logic operations required for a balanced

ternary addition.



There are two ways to express an integer value T in ternary digits, trits. In the

unbalanced ternary notation, each trit can have the value 0,1 or 2. For the

implementation of a ternary full addition we chose the balanced notation, in which

case each trit can have the value 1 ( = -1 ), 0 or 1. Regardless of the notation used, a n

trit number tn · · · t2t1t0 corresponds to a decimal number d =          .
                                  sum     1      0      1
                                   1      0      1      1
                                   0      1      0      1
                                   1      1      1      0


                                 carry    1      0      1
                                   1      0      0      1
                                   0      0      0      0
                                   1      1      0      0
TABLE I. Truth table the sum and carry-out trit for a ternary addition where the

carry-in trit z=0.



The addition of two ternary inputs results in a value that can be expressed using two

trits. The index of the first trit t0, the sum, is that of the two added inputs. The second

trit t1 is the carry-out, which is carried to the next index. The sum and carry-out trits

for the half addition of ternary inputs x and y can be calculated as

                                         t0 = d - t13

and

                                         t1 = [d/3],

where [d/3] denotes the neareset integer function of the decimal, linear sum d = x + y

divided by the radix 3.

The truth table of a balanced ternary half adder is shown in Table I. When we

consider the sum in the truth table, we can identify a periodic anti-diagonal pattern of

the form 1,1,0. A full adder takes the carry-out from the previous addition and uses it

as an input for the next addition. The sum and carry-out trit for the full addition of
ternary inputs x and y and carry-in input z can be obtained in a similar fashion with d

= x + y + z.



Evidently, the resulting truth table for a carry-in value z = 0 is that of a half addition.

In the case of carry-in z = 1 (see Table II) for the sum out, the anti-diagonal pattern

has shifted one line up along the diagonal. Similarly for carry-in z = 1 the pattern that

corresponds to the sum out digit has shifted down one line (see Table III).

Furthermore, the carry-out has the same periodic anti-diagonal pattern with a period

of three lines and also shifts one line up for carry-in z = 1 and one line down for

carry-in z = 1.

                                 sum     1     0      1
                                  1      1     0      1
                                  0      1     1      0
                                  1      0     1      1


                                 carry   1     0      1
                                   1     0     0      0
                                   0     1     0      0
                                   1     1     1      0



TABLE II. Truth table for a ternary full addition with carry-in z = 1.




                                  sum    1     0      1
                                   1     1     1      0
                                   0     0     1      1
                                   1     1     0      1


                                 carry   1     0      1
                                   1     0     1      1
                                  0     0     0      1
                                  1     0     0      0


TABLE III. Truth table for a ternary full addition with carry-in z = 1.



Our multi-gate MOSSET device is fabricated on 200 mm silicon-on-insulator wafers

in a CMOS platform. The device consists of a 200 nm long, 50 nm wide and 8 nm

thick. After implantation the device consists of a metallic source- and drain contact,

and an undoped region beneath the top gate and spacers forming a single electron

transistor (SET). By applying a positive voltage to the top-gate the potential of the

SET is lowered. The potential of the SET can be further controlled by a

polycrystalline side-gate distanced 40 nm away from the channel and the silicon

substrate, 145 nm below a buried oxide, which is used as a global back-gate. The

result is a single SET with three control gates. The total electrostatic energy of the

SET in the case of zero applied bias is given by




where N is the number of electrons on the dot and CT(S,B)G and VT(S,B)G are the

capacitance from the dot to top-(side-,back-)gate and voltage applied to the top-(side-

,back-)gate respectively. The total capacitance coupled to the dot C = CL + CTG + CSG

+ CBG + CR is the sum of capacitances to the gates and capacitances the left and right

contacts, CL and CR. In order to load one extra electron on the dot, an increase
in gate voltage is required. This leads to the characteristic periodic anti-diagonal

pattern (lines of constant electrochemical potential of the dot, μN) in the source-drain

current versus gate voltage applied on each gate.

In order to obtain three distinct outputs 1, 0 and 1 as a function of gate voltage we

utilize the rectifying behavior of the single electron transistor12. Figure 1 illustrates

how, when an alternating bias voltage VB is applied, this results in a either an average

zero, negative or positive source-drain current, depending on the electrochemical

potential of the dot that is controlled by the gate voltage.




FIG 1: Schematic energy diagram depicting the electrochemical potentials of the source,

drain and dot for three different situations. (a) There is no charge state of the quantum dot in

any of the two bias windows, so no current will flow. (b) A charge state of the dot is in the

higher bias window, so electrons are transported from the source to the drain when the bias is

at the negative voltage. The current will flow from the drain to the source, so a net negative

current (blue) is measured. (c) A charge state of the dot is in the lower bias window, so

electrons can flow from the drain to the source when the bias is at the positive voltage. The

current will flow from the source to the drain, so a positive current is measured. (d) A

simulated stability diagram for one of the gates. An alternating bias voltage results in a net

current that alternates between zero, negative and positive as a function of gate voltage.
The average current resulting from the alternating bias voltage as a function of top- and side-

gate voltage is shown in figure 2. By mapping the logic inputs x and y to the top- and side-

gate voltage we can either obtain an output current corresponding to the inverse of the sum

trit, or an output current that corresponds to the inverse of the carry-out trit.




FIG 2: Measurement of the ternary half addition. (a) The net current shows a anti-diagonal

behavior as function top-gate and side-gate voltage. We mapped the logic inputs x and y to

the top-gate and side-gate voltage for both the sum (solid lines) and carry-out (dashed lines).

The resulting currents correspond to (b) the inverse of the sum and (c) the inverse of the

carry-out.
A full addition is obtained by mapping the carry-in trit z onto the back-gate voltage. Figure 3

shows the shift in the anti-diagonal pattern due to the change in electrochemical potential by

applying a voltage to the back gate.




FIG 3: Source-drain current due to an alternating bias voltage versus top- and side gate

voltage. The anti-diagonal pattern shifts due to the change in electrochemical potential of the

dot a function of back-gate voltage.



In more general terms, we can say that for a three gate - single dot device the electrochemical

potential μ on the dot is the linear sum of gate voltages. That is (Vx + Vy + Vz)CG/C, in the

ideal case where all gate capacitances have the value CG. The net current due to an alternating

bias voltage is

                       I ∝ [(Vx + Vy + Vz)CG/C] + [(Vx + Vy + Vz)CG/3C].

Thus, by engineering the gate capacitance one can in principle fabricated devices that

calculate either the sum or the carry-out trit for the same input voltages. A schematic circuit

diagram is shown in figure 4, illustrating how two SETs can be used to perform a full

balanced ternary addition. The resulting output current of the first addition can be amplified

to a voltage that in turn can be used as the input for the next addition453.
FIG 4: Schematic circuit diagram of two concatenated balanced ternary full adders. The SET

that calculates the sum trit is indicated by a large circle. The carry-out trit is calculated by the

SET that has a CG 3 time smaller than that of the sum SET and is indicated by the small circle.

The carry-out is amplified by an inverting buffer in order to be passed to the next addition.


In conclusion, we have shown that by utilizing the gate dependent rectifying behavior of a

single electron transistor we can make a device that operates inherently in the balanced

ternary basis. Combining this ternary mode of operation with the ability to have more than

one gate controlling the potential of the SET island allows us to perform complex ternary

logic operations on a single transistor, which we demonstrate experimentally.
This work was supported by the European Community (EC) Framework Program 7 (FP7)

Future Emerging Technology (FET)- proactive projects Molecular Logic Circuits (MOLOC)

(215750) and Atom Functionalities on Silicon Devices (AFSID) (214989). This research was

conducted by the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Quantum

Computation and Communication Technology (Project number CE110001027). F.R. is

Director of Research at Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique, Belgium.




1
    International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (2009).
2
    H. Ahmed, A.C. Lnine, and Z.A.K. Durrani, Ieee T Electron Dev 47, 2334–2339 (2000).
3
    Y.-H. Jeong, Nanotechnology, IEEE Transactions on 3, 377–382 (2004).
4
     K.-S. Park, S.-J. Kim, I.-B. Baek, W.-H. Lee, J.-S. Kang, Y.-B. Jo, S. Lee, C.-K. Lee, J.-B.

Choi, J.-H. Kim, K.-H. Park, W.-J. Cho, M.-G. Jang, and S.-J. Lee, Nanotechnology, IEEE

Transactions on DOI - 10.1109/TNANO.2004.837857 4, 242–248 (2005).
5
    S.-J. Lee, Nanotechnology, IEEE Transactions on 4, 242–248 (2005).
6
     J.A. Mol, J. Verduijn, R.D. Levine, F. Remacle, and S. Rogge, Proceedings of the National

Academy of Sciences 108, 13969–13972 (2011).
7
     M. Klein, J.A. Mol, J. Verduijn, G.P. Lansbergen, S. Rogge, R.D. Levine, and F. Remacle,

Applied Physics Letters 96, – (2010).
8
     C.K. Lee, S.J. Kim, S.J. Shin, J.B. Choi, and Y. Takahashi, Applied Physics Letters 92,

093101 (2008).
9
    S. Hurst, IEEE Transactions on Computers (1984).
10
     S. Shin, C. Jung, B. Park, and T. Yoon, Applied Physics Letters (2010).
11
     S.J. Shin, J.J. Lee, H.J. Kang, J.B. Choi, S.R.E. Yang, Y. Takahashi, and D.G. Hasko, Nano

Lett 11, 1591–1597 (2011).
12
     J. Weis, R.J. Haug, K.V. Klitzing, and K. Ploog, Semiconductor Science and Technology

10, 877–880 (1999).
