          Reconfigurable SWCNT ferroelectric field-effect transistor arrays


Dongjoon Rhee,1,2,7 Kwan-Ho Kim,1,7 Jeffrey Zheng,3 Seunguk Song,1,4,5 Lian-Mao Peng,6 Roy
H. Olsson III,1 Joohoon Kang,2,* and Deep Jariwala1,*


1
    Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA, USA
2
    School of Advanced Materials Science and Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU),
Suwon 16419, Republic of Korea
3
    Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA, USA
4
    Department of Energy Science, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Suwon 16419, Republic of
Korea
5
    Center for 2D Quantum Heterostructures, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Sungkyunkwan
University (SKKU), Suwon 16419, Republic of Korea
6
    Center for Carbon-Based Electronics, School of Electronics, Peking University, Beijing, China


7
    These authors contributed equally: Dongjoon Rhee, Kwan-Ho Kim
*
Corresponding author: Deep Jariwala (email: dmj@seas.upenn.edu), Joohoon Kang (email:
joohoon@skku.edu)


Abstract
Reconfigurable devices, capable of switching between multiple circuit elements, have garnered
significant attention for alleviating the scaling requirements of conventional complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology, as they require fewer components to construct
circuits with similar function in traditional CMOS. Prior demonstrations in such devices required
continuous voltage application for programming gate terminal(s) in addition to the primary gate
terminal, which undermines the advantages of reconfigurable devices in realizing compact and
power-efficient integrated circuits. Here, we realize reconfigurable devices based on a single-gate



                                                  1
field-effect transistor (FET) architecture by integrating semiconducting channels consisting of a
monolayer film of highly aligned single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) with a ferroelectric
aluminum scandium nitride (Al0.68Sc0.32N) gate dielectric, all compatible with CMOS back-end-
of-line (BEOL) processing. Leveraging the scalability of both SWCNT assembly and Al0.68Sc0.32N
growth processes, we demonstrated these SWCNT ferroelectric FETs (FeFETs) in a centimeter-
scale array (~1 cm2) comprising ~735 devices, with high spatial uniformity in device
characteristics across the array. The devices exhibited ambipolar transfer characteristics with high
on-state currents and current on/off ratios exceeding 105, demonstrating an excellent balance
between electron and hole conduction (~270 μA μm−1 at a drain voltage of 3 V)—an achievement
that has been challenging with previous ambipolar devices based on silicon and other
semiconductors. When functioning as a non-volatile memory, the SWCNT FeFETs demonstrated
large memory windows of 0.26 V nm−1 and 0.08 V nm−1 in the hole and electron conduction
regions, respectively, combined with excellent retention behavior for up to 104 s. Repeated
reconfiguration between p-FET and n-FET modes was also enabled by switching the spontaneous
polarization in Al0.68Sc0.32N and operating the transistor within a voltage range below the coercive
voltage. As a proof-of-concept demonstration, we revealed through computer-aided circuit
simulations that reconfigurable SWCNT transistors can realize ternary content-addressable
memory (TCAM) with far fewer devices compared to circuits based on conventional silicon
CMOS technology or alternative systems based on resistive non-volatile devices.


Introduction
With the advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT), the demand
for processing large volumes of data is rapidly increasing1,2. However, scaling both device
dimensions and supply voltage to meet this demand are becoming more challenging with
conventional silicon (Si) complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology3,4. In
particular, further size reduction of field-effect transistors (FETs) is hindered by various short
channel effects3,4, while reducing the supply voltage to deep sub-1 V levels is constrained by the
Boltzmann limit4,5. These limitations not only hinder efforts to increase the device density but also
result in substantial power dissipation4.
   Reconfigurable devices, which can be configured into various circuit elements post fabrication,
have garnered significant attention to address the challenges associated with device downscaling


                                                 2
and power consumption 6-13. Most notable among these devices is a single reconfigurable device
which can dynamically switch between p and n polarity in a FET geometry6-8. This reconfigurable
aspect allows a circuit to perform multiple functions within a given physical layout, thereby
reducing both the number of devices and the overall circuit dimensions needed to achieve specific
functions10,14-17. For instance, a single circuit consisting of reconfigurable FETs demonstrated the
ability to perform various Boolean logic functions, each requiring fewer unit devices compared to
individual logic circuits based on standard CMOS transistors10,14-16. Additionally, in the design of
a full adder, the use of reconfigurable FETs led to a 40% reduction in area and a 25% reduction in
critical path delay15,17,18. Power consumption and circuit delay can also be reduced by using
reconfigurable device-based circuits compared to CMOS counterparts, as fewer devices are
required to achieve the same function14,16,17. Despite these notable advantages, the practical
application of reconfigurable devices over CMOS technology is hindered by their reliance on Si
nanowire channels for sufficient electrostatic doping6,7. These nanowires are either produced by
bottom-up synthesis, which prevents deterministic fabrication for high device integration
density8,13,19, or by top-down methods with complex processes that lead to low throughput9,11.
Achieving balanced electron and hole current levels in Si channels is also challenging due to the
marked differences in electron and hole effective masses8,13,20,21.
   Low-dimensional semiconductors exhibiting ambipolar carrier transport behavior offer a
unique advantage over Si, as their atom-scale thickness and dangling-bond-free surface enable
effective electrostatic doping of both electrons and holes and a much smaller scaling length
compared     to   bulk   semiconductors22-25.    Among      various   ambipolar   low-dimensional
semiconductors, such as two-dimensional (2D) black phosphorous (BP), tungsten diselenide
(WSe2), and molybdenum ditelluride (MoTe2), and one-dimensional (1D) single-walled carbon
nanotubes (CNTs)22,26, SWCNTs are particularly promising due to their nearly equal effective
masses for electron and hole, which facilitates highly balanced current levels in both n- and p-type
FET operations26-28. Additionally, SWCNTs can be produced at large volumes with over 99.9999%
semiconducting purity using well-established growth and solution-based sorting processes29, while
are also being compatible with back-end-of-line (BEOL) processing for monolithic integration
with silicon CMOS technology30,31, which further enhances their merit. However, obtaining high-
performance, high reliability, and low variation semiconducting channels from SWCNTs is
challenging because the SWCNTs must be assembled from solution into films at high density, with



                                                  3
their longitudinal direction aligned parallel to the channel29,32-34.
    In addition to the discovery of alternative channel materials, improvements in device
architecture are crucial to fully leverage the benefits of reconfigurable devices. Specifically,
reconfigurable FETs require additional gate terminal(s) to program the polarity of the channel
(program gate), which poses a drawback for device downscaling compared to conventional three-
terminal FETs consisting of a source, drain, and gate6-13. Moreover, voltage must be continuously
applied to the program gate to maintain the designed polarity of the device, which hinders efforts
to lower power consumption6-13. Incorporating a ferroelectric insulator into the gate stack is a
promising approach to reduce both device dimensions and power consumption. The charge carrier
polarity and threshold voltage can be controlled through spontaneous polarization in the
ferroelectric layer, which remains non-volatile after the programming step35,36, thus allowing for
device reconfiguration without the need for additional gate terminals and continuous gate biasing.
Although SWCNT-based ferroelectric FETs (FeFETs) have been demonstrated using ferroelectric
metal oxides and polymers as gate insulators, only p-type operation has been achieved37-45. The
limited tunability of charge carrier polarity in previous SWCNT FeFETs arises because water and
oxygen adsorbates can screen the electric field under positive gate bias, rendering the ferroelectric
polarization insufficient to induce electron doping46,47. Ferroelectric materials with high
polarizability offer the potential for enabling electrostatic n-doping of SWCNT FeFETs. Among
various candidate materials, aluminum scandium nitrides (Al1−xScxN) have recently attracted
significant attention due to their high remnant polarization (> 100 µC/cm2)35,48, which is much
higher than that of state-of-the-art hafnium zirconium oxide (HZO) films (1–40 µC/cm2)49,50.
Additionally, Al1−xScxN is compatible with CMOS processes and can be deposited at BEOL-
compatible growth temperature (< 400 °C)35,36,51, thus serving as an ideal option for integration
with SWCNTs to realize BEOL-compatible reconfigurable devices.
    Here, we demonstrate reconfigurable SWCNT FeFETs that can switch between p- and n-type
FETs, as well as a non-volatile memory (NVM), by employing ferroelectric Al0.68Sc0.32N film as
the gate dielectric. A dense monolayer film of semiconducting SWCNTs was first assembled with
a high degree of alignment on an Al0.68Sc0.32N-deposited Si wafer to fabricate centimeter-scale
device arrays with high on-state current and gate tunability. The scalability of SWCNT and
Al0.68Sc0.32N films enabled reliable and spatially uniform device characteristics across the array.
By engineering the metal−semiconductor contact interface, we achieved ambipolar behavior in the



                                                   4
SWCNT FeFETs, with well-balanced, high on-state hole and electron current densities (~270 μA
μm−1 at a drain voltage of 3 V) and current on/off ratios exceeding 105, placing our device among
the highest-performing ambipolar FeFETs reported. When operated as an NVM, the SWCNT
FeFET exhibited large memory windows of 0.26 V nm−1 and 0.08 V nm−1 in the hole and electron
conduction regions, respectively, with excellent retention behavior up to 104 s. Reconfiguration
between p- and n-channel FETs was also achieved by first switching the ferroelectric polarization
direction and then operating the device within a gate voltage range below the coercive voltage.
Both the on-state current and current on/off ratio remain similar and balanced throughout the
repeated polarity switching cycles, highlighting the potential of SWCNT FeFETs in reconfigurable
circuits. Lastly, we demonstrate ternary content-addressable memory (TCAM) based on SWCNT
FeFETs through computer-aided circuit simulation, using significantly fewer devices compared to
the conventional TCAMs that rely on multiple silicon FETs or alternative technologies based on
NVM devices.


Results and Discussion
Figure 1a schematically illustrates the SWCNT FeFET fabricated in a back-gate FET
configuration, which consists of a monolayer film of aligned semiconducting SWCNTs (average
diameter: 1.5 nm29) as the channel and a 45-nm Al0.68Sc0.32N (hereafter denoted as AlScN)
ferroelectric insulator film as the gate dielectric. A wurtzite-phase AlScN layer was first epitaxially
grown on a platinized 300 nm SiO2/silicon (100) wafer, followed by the poly(methyl methacrylate)
(PMMA)-assisted wet transfer process of a highly aligned SWCNT film from an SiO2/Si substrate
(Methods and Figure S1)52,53. Notably, the dense and highly aligned nature of the monolayer
SWCNT film was preserved during the transfer process, as confirmed by atomic force microscope
(AFM) images of the film before and after the transfer (Figure S2–S3). After the SWCNT transfer
process, the channel and source/drain (S/D) electrodes were fabricated with the channel length
oriented parallel to the SWCNT alignment to achieve high current density, while the AlScN in the
corner region of the substrate was etched to expose the Pt back gate (G) (Methods). When a
positive gate voltage (VGS) exceeding the positive coercive voltage (VGS > VC+) is applied, the
polarization of the AlScN film orients toward the channel, thereby accumulating electrons in the
channel. Conversely, applying VGS more negative than the negative coercive voltage (VGS < VC−)




                                                  5
 Figure 1. Scalable FeFET arrays fabricated by integrating aligned semiconducting
 SWCNT channels with ferroelectric AlScN gate dielectrics. (a) Scheme describing the
 device architecture and operating principles. (b) Optical microscope images of SWCNT FeFET
 arrays. (c) Angle-resolved polarized Raman spectra of the aligned SWCNT channel measured
 with a 633-nm laser source. Polarization angles are defined with respect to the channel length
 direction. Transfer characteristics of SWCNT FeFETs fabricated using (d) Au and (e) Cr
 contacts. (f) Output characteristics of ambipolar SWCNT FeFETs (Cr-contacted) for the p- and
 n-type operations. (g, h) Plots comparing the performance of ambipolar SWCNT FeFETs (this
 work) with previous works using various channel and ferroelectric materials: (g) on-current
 densities (solid data: hole current, open data: electron current) and (h) current on/off ratios and
 normalized memory windows (solid data: p-FeFET operation mode, open data: solid data: n-
 FeFET operation mode). (i) Plot showing the performance comparison of p-type SWCNT
 FeFETs (this work, at VDS of 0.1 and 1 V) with previously reported SWCNT FeFETs. Gr:
 graphene, HZO: HfxZr1−xO2, P(VDF-TrFE): poly(vinylidenefluoride-trifluoroethylene), CIPS:
 CuInP2S6, PZT: Pb(ZrxTi1−x)O3, BNT: (Bi,Nd)4Ti3O12, BTO: BaTiO3.


switches the polarization in the opposite direction and thus induces holes in the channel.



                                                 6
    The wafer-scale, densely aligned SWCNT film with a purity close to industry-standard
(99.9999%) enables scalable fabrication of FeFETs, as demonstrated by an optical microscope
image of a centimeter-scale SWCNT FeFET array with the channel length (Lch) and width (Wch)
of Lch = 500 nm and Wch = 20 μm, respectively (Figure 1b). Importantly, our aligned SWCNT
channel retains high quality with a low level of atomic-scale defects despite the wet transfer
process involved in device fabrication, which is confirmed by the intensity ratio of the Raman D
peak (at 1330 cm−1) to the G+ peak (at 1594 cm−1) of only 0.0229. Highly aligned nature of
SWCNTs along the channel was further validated by angle-resolved polarized Raman spectra
using a linearly polarized 633-nm laser source (Figure 1c). The intensities of Raman peaks,
including radial breathing mode (RBM, 156 cm−1) and the G− and G+ bands (1572 and 1594 cm−1),
significantly decreased from their maximum to minimum as the polarization direction changed
from parallel (polarization angle: 0°) to perpendicular (polarization angle: 90°) to the channel. The
ratio of the G+ peak intensity at 0° to that at 90° was only 0.026, indicating the highly aligned
assembly of SWCNTs parallel to the channel direction.
   Engineering the Fermi level of the contact metal used for source/drain electrodes enables the
design of the polarity of our SWCNT FeFETs, as demonstrated by the representative transfer
curves obtained by measuring the drain current (IDS) as a function of VGS at a fixed drain voltage
(VDS) of −0.1 V (Figure 1d,e). In particular, we realized p-type FeFETs by employing metals with
high work functions (ΦM) such as Au (ΦM = 5.1 eV54) and Pd (ΦM = 5.2 eV55), as their Fermi
levels (EF) before contact (EF = −5.1 eV for Au and −5.2 eV for Pd with respect to the vacuum
level) are located below the valence band minimum (EV) of the SWCNT channel (EV = −4.75 eV56)
(Figure S4). For gate voltage sweep ranges of VGS ≥ ±10 V, both Au- and Pd-contacted devices
exhibited clear clockwise hysteresis behavior in the hole conduction region (Figure 1d and Figure
S5a,b), indicating that the ferroelectric polarization switching in the AlScN layer dominated the
channel conductance51. The memory window (MW) and the current on/off ratio (Ion/Ioff) reached
their maximum at the largest tested sweep range of VGS = ±15 V, as this sweep voltage exceeded
the coercive voltage of the 45-nm AlScN layer (~13.5 V35) and thus allowed the ferroelectric
polarization to switch between fully up and fully down states. The MW and Ion/Ioff ratio were 11.9
V and 4.4 × 105 for the Au-contacted devices, and 10.4 V and 2.6 × 105 for the Pd-contacted
devices, with the on-current levels being similar for both types of devices. The comparison
between MW and Ion/Ioff ratio indicates that the Au contact enhances the performance of



                                                 7
SWCNT/AlScN devices as p-type FeFETs relative to the Pd contact. The p-type behavior and
ferroelectricity-induced hysteresis were also robust at higher drain voltage for both Au and Pd
contacts (Figure S6a,b).
   In addition to p-type FeFETs, ambipolar FeFETs can also be fabricated using contact metals
with similar Schottky barrier heights for hole and electron injection (Figure 1d). This approach
benefits from the high remnant polarization of AlScN, which can induce substantial doping levels
for both types of carriers35,36. To this end, we tested Ti (EF = −4.3 eV55) and Cr (EF = −4.5 eV55)
due to their work functions being close to that of SWCNTs (EF = −4.5 eV56) and their good
adhesion with low-dimensional material channels (Figure S4)57-61. Although the Ti-contacted
SWCNT FeFET exhibited ambipolar transfer characteristics, hysteresis corresponding to
ferroelectric switching was observed only in the electron conduction region (Figure S5c and S6c).
In addition, Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio were more than 2 orders of magnitude lower than those of Au- and
Pd-contacted counterparts. The unexpected hysteresis behavior, along with the low Ion and Ion/Ioff
ratio, most likely resulted from the defective channel/electrode interface caused by a reaction
between the SWCNT and Ti62-64. Notably, unlike the Ti-contacted device, the Cr-contacted FeFET
demonstrated ambipolar transfer characteristics solely governed by ferroelectric switching
(clockwise hysteresis in the hole conduction region and counterclockwise hysteresis in the electron
conduction region), with the current levels similar for both hole and electron conduction.
Furthermore, Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio were comparable to those observed for the case of Au and Pd
contacts (Figure 1d and Figure S5d and S6d), thus motivating the use of Cr over Ti for realizing
ambipolar SWCNT FeFETs. The MW and Ion/Ioff ratio were 11.0 V and 1.9 × 105 in the hole
conduction region, and 3.5 V and 4.8 × 105 in the electron conduction region, for the widest VGS
sweep range tested (VGS = ±15 V). The ferroelectricity-dominated ambipolar characteristics were
also evident at higher drain voltage (Figure S6d).
   To further validate that the hysteresis of the SWCNT FeFETs originates from the ferroelectric
switching of AlScN, we compared the current–voltage characteristics with those measured from
back-gate SWCNT FETs fabricated using 50-nm SiO2/Si wafers (Figure S7). For this comparative
study, we focused on Au and Cr as representative contact metals because they achieved the best
performance for p-type and ambipolar FeFETs, respectively. The SWCNT FeFET and FET
employed identical electrode designs and channel dimensions (Lch = 500 nm and Wch = 20 μm) to
directly examine the effect of 45-nm AlScN and 50-nm SiO2 gate dielectrics on device



                                                 8
characteristics. Under the gate voltage sweep of VGS = ±15 V, both the Au- and Cr-contacted FETs
exhibited a p-type behavior with charge-trapping-induced hysteresis (counterclockwise) due to the
absence of ferroelectricity in the SiO2 layer35. Thus, the comparison of hysteresis behavior between
the SWCNT FeFET and FET further confirms that the electrical characteristics of the SWCNT
FeFET are governed by the ferroelectric switching in the AlScN layer.
   One of the major advantages of semiconducting SWCNTs for electronic applications is their
ability to achieve nearly equal current levels for both electron and hole conduction, a characteristic
critical for ambipolar devices but often challenging to achieve with other semiconducting
materials26-28. By measuring the output characteristics of the ambipolar FeFETs for both p- and n-
type operations, we evaluated how closely hole and electron current levels align in our SWCNT
channel integrated with the AlScN layer (Figure 1f). Notably, the on-current densities for the p-
type and n-type operation modes were similar for the tested drain voltage range (0 V to ±5 V). The
on-current densities were ~100 μA μm−1 and ~120 μA μm−1 at |VDS| = 1 V for hole and electron
conduction, respectively, under VGS of −15 V and 15 V. The on-current densities increased to ~270
μA μm−1 (hole) and ~270 μA μm−1 (electron) at |VDS| = 3 V, and further to ~375 μA μm−1 (hole)
and ~340 μA μm−1 (electron) at |VDS| = 5 V. This balanced electron and hole current levels are
particularly noteworthy because silicon transistors dominating the current semiconductor industry
exhibit imbalanced current densities between p-type and n-type transistors, thus necessitating
additional engineering efforts such as channel width adjustments.
   To ensure a fair assessment of our work, we compare the performance metrics of our SWCNT
device with other reported FeFETs (Figure 1g–i). As illustrated in Figure 1g, we first compare
the on-current densities, where our ambipolar SWCNT FeFET outperforms previous ambipolar
FeFETs36,65-77, including state-of-the-art silicon technologies, such as ferroelectric FinFETs at the
14-nm technology node using HfxZr1−xO265, and graphene-based FeFETs68,69,71-76. Notably, the
hole (solid red star) and electron (open red star) currents of the SWCNT FeFET are well-balanced,
and the on-current densities exceed those of all reported ambipolar FeFETs, reaching more than 4
times the densities achieved by the state-of-the-art ambipolar FeFETs fabricated with WSe2 and
AlScN36. In addition to the current densities, other our work demonstrates among the highest
FeFET performance metrics reported for ambipolar devices, considering both the normalized MW
(MW normalized by the ferroelectric thickness) and the Ion/ Ioff ratio when operated as p-FeFET
(solid red star) and n-FeFET (open red star) modes (Figure 1h). We also compared our device



                                                  9
performance with FeFETs based on SWCNTs and various ferroelectric materials37-45, such as
metal oxide perovskites and poly(vinylidenefluoride-trifluoroethylene) (P(VDF-TrFE)) (Figure
1i). We focused our comparison on p-type FeFETs, as all previous SWCNT FeFETs exhibit p-
type behavior due to the predominance of p-type characteristics in SWCNTs when used in
transistors. Our device achieved the highest performance in terms of normalized MW and on-
current density, along with the third-highest Ion/Ioff ratio among the reported SWCNT FeFETs. The
performance comparisons clearly demonstrate the high potential of the proposed SWCNT/AlScN
system for scalable, circuit-level fabrication of ambipolar FeFETs.
   Benefiting from the scalability of SWCNT and AlScN films, the device characteristics of our
FeFETs demonstrated excellent spatial uniformity across the centimeter-scale array (Figure 2a–c
and Figure S8–S9). As shown in Figure 2a, transfer curves measured from different ambipolar
FeFETs (Cr contact) within the array closely match and overlap with each other. The p-type
FeFETs (Au contact) also exhibited a good uniformity in transfer characteristics across the array
(Figure S8). The device-to-device uniformity of ambipolar FeFETs was further investigated by
performing statistical analyses of the key performance metrics, including MW, voltages
corresponding to the minimum current in the high-resistance states (VHRS) in both the hole and
electron conduction regions, and the current ratio of low-resistance state (LRS) to high-resistance
state (HRS) measured at VHRS (ILRS/IHRS). The average and standard deviation (SD) of MW were
11.8 V and 0.9 V for hole conduction side and 3.8 V and 0.6 V for electron conduction side (Figure
S9). VHRS were also narrowly distributed, with average values of −1.8 V (SD: 0.5 V) for hole
conduction side and 5.9 V (SD: 0.5 V) for electron conduction side (Figure 2b). The average
ILRS/IHRS values corresponding to these operation voltages were 4.7 × 104 (SD: 2.3 ×104) and 3.0
× 103 (SD: 2.4 ×103) for hole and electron conduction sides, respectively (Figure 2c).
    Next, we assessed the retention characteristics of the ambipolar SWCNT FeFET as a non-
volatile memory device by measuring the time evolution of current levels in both LRS and HRS
across hole and electron conduction regimes (Figure 2d). Prior to the retention measurement, each
state was set by applying a gate voltage pulse of |VGS| = 15 V with a pulse width of 1 s to achieve
the desired polarization. In specific, VGS = 15 V was used to achieve upward polarization for LRS
in the electron conduction region and HRS in the hole conduction region, while VGS = −15 V was
applied to induce downward polarization for LRS in the hole conduction region and HRS in the
electron conduction region. The drain current at different time points was then read by applying



                                                10
 Figure 2. Memory Characteristics of SWCNT FeFETs. (a) Transfer curves of 16 devices in
 the FeFET array. Histograms showing (b) HRS voltages and (c) ILRS/IHRS ratios at HRS
 voltages. (d) Transfer curves of the device used for retention measurements (VGS sweep range:
 ±15 V). Retention characteristics of memory states in (e) hole conduction and (f) electron
 conduction sides.


VGS = −2 V and VDS = −0.1 V for the memory states in the hole conduction region (Figure 2e),
and VGS = 5 V and VDS = 0.1 V for the memory states in the electron conduction region (Figure
2f). Remarkably, the LRS and HRS in both the hole and electron conduction regions were
characterized by stable retention behavior for up to 104 s after the initial program/erase pulse.
   In addition to serving as memory devices, our ambipolar SWCNT array enables the realization
of FETs with switchable polarities, which is greatly beneficial for reducing the number of device
components needed to construct circuits compared to unipolar FETs, as well as for realizing
multiple circuits through reconfiguration (Figure 3). By programming the polarization direction
of AlScN with a gate bias (VGS = ±14 V) and operating within a VGS range smaller than the coercive
voltage, we achieved switching between p-channel (polarization opposite to the channel) and n-
channel (polarization toward the channel) FETs using a single SWCNT device (Figure 3a). Figure
3b,c shows transfer curves measured over 100 cycles of device polarity reconfiguration. The
stability of the SWCNT channel and AlScN layer during reconfiguration was demonstrated by the
nearly consistent transfer curves. The device exhibited similar Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio for p-channel



                                                 11
 Figure 3. Reconfigurable p- and n-type FETs realized by SWCNT FeFETs. (a) Scheme
 describing the reconfiguration strategy. Transfer curves measured during (b) p-channel FET
 and (c) n-channel FET reconfiguration up to 100 cycles. (d-e) Corresponding on-currents and
 on/off ratios.


and n-channel FET operations, highlighting the advantage of the SWCNT channel in achieving
symmetry between the two modes (Figure 3c,d). Furthermore, the Ion/Ioff ratio remained above 3
× 103 throughout the reconfiguration cycles, which is sufficient for constructing digital circuits
(Ion/Ioff > 103)78,79.
    The experimental results presented thus far demonstrate that our SWCNT FeFET offers a
variety of multifunctional capabilities, including p-polar and ambipolar NVM devices, as well as
p- and n-type polarity switchable FETs. In this section, we show the practical utility of the SWCNT
FeFET in circuit applications, specifically by demonstrating its use in ternary content-addressable
memory (TCAM). Notably, as will be compared in more detail, a single ambipolar SWCNT FeFET
provides the full functionality required for a non-volatile TCAM, in contrast to conventional
CMOS based TCAM designs, which typically require 10 or more transistors80.
    To validate this, we performed circuit simulations using Cadence Virtuoso. The TCAM circuit
comprises an SWCNT FeFET, a PMOS transistor, and a pre-charge capacitor (Figure 4a). The
SWCNT FeFET serves as the core-cell of the TCAM (whereas conventional silicon-based TCAM
requires at least 10 transistors as will be discussed), while the PMOS transistor charges the pre-
charge capacitor, which is used to evaluate whether the input to the search line (SL) matches the


                                                12
stored state in the core SWCNT FeFET. It is important to note that the PMOS transistor and pre-




 Figure 4. Ternary content-addressable memory (TCAM) using single SWCNT FeFET.
 (a) Schematic illustration of the TCAM circuit based on an ambipolar SWCNT FeFET. (b)
 Transfer curves of the ambipolar FeFET, showing the distinct behavior in different polarization
 states: “0” (red), “1” (blue), and "don't care” (“X”) (green) states. (c) Scheme describing the
 channel conduction across all possible cases, demonstrating how the match or mismatch
 between the search voltage (VSL) and the stored state in the FeFET affects conduction. (d)
 Simulation results reflecting the behavior of the TCAM for each matching and mismatching
 scenario, with corresponding voltage outputs for the match line (ML). (e) A comparison table
 showcasing various TCAM circuit configurations, including conventional silicon-based
 transistors, RRAM or PCM-based systems, and FeFET-based designs. The table highlights the
 significant reduction in component count achieved with the ambipolar FeFET, which requires
 only a single device for full TCAM functionality, thus representing the most compact non-
 volatile solution.


                                               13
charge capacitor are peripheral components to the TCAM core-cell, and multiple TCAM core-
cells are typically connected to the peripheral circuitry.
    Figure 4b presents the experimental transfer curves of the ambipolar SWCNT FeFET, where
each curve exhibits a different threshold voltage due to shifts caused by varying degrees of
ferroelectric polarization. We define the curve with the leftmost threshold voltage (red) as state
“0,” the one with the rightmost threshold voltage (blue) as state “1,” and the middle curve (green)
as the "don't care" state, “X.” Note that the leftmost and rightmost threshold voltages differ slightly
from those in Figure 3b,c, as a wider gate voltage range (VG from −8 to 10 V, instead of −2 to 5
V) was swept to achieve sufficiently high contrast between current levels for the three states.
Sweeping this wider voltage range might have induced partial polarization of the pre-polarized
AlScN, resulting in shifts in threshold voltages compared to when a narrower gate voltage sweep
range was used. For reliable circuit simulations, we emphasize that the experimentally obtained
transfer curves were directly used to create an accurate model within Cadence. As shown in Figure
S10, this model precisely replicates the experimental transfer curves and serves as the basis for the
TCAM demonstration.
    To provide a comprehensive understanding of the TCAM operation, we schematically
illustrate different scenarios in Figure 4c based on the input and stored states of the ambipolar
FeFET. When the stored state and the search voltage (VSL) match—meaning the FeFET state is
"0" (or "1") and VSL is likewise "0" (or "1")—the current through the FeFET channel is low.
Conversely, when the stored state of the FeFET and VSL do not match, the current is high. In cases
where the "don't care" state ("X") is stored, the current remains low regardless of whether VSL is
“0” and “1,” enabling full TCAM functionality. These current levels, as functions of the FeFET
state and VSL, are visually illustrated in Figure 4b for better clarity.
    Based on this operational principle, a full TCAM circuit simulation is performed as shown in
Figure 4d and Figure S11. The topmost curve (black) in Figure 4d represents the pre-charge
voltage (VPre), which is applied to charge the pre-charge capacitor to 1 V. The orange curve shows
the applied VSL, while the red, blue, and green curves represent the voltage on the match line (ML)
corresponding to the stored states of the FeFET: "0," "1," and "X." Depending on whether the
stored state matches or mismatches with the applied VSL, the voltage across the pre-charged
capacitor is either discharged to ground or maintained. In this simulation, a 1 pF capacitor is used,
yielding a discharge time (t) of 1 μs, which is determined using the equation I × t = C × V, where



                                                  14
I is the current, C is the capacitance, and V is the voltage. When the stored state and VSL do not
match, the current through the FeFET is approximately 1 μA, and with a 1 V charge across the
capacitor, the discharge time is around 1 μs with a 1 pF capacitor. In contrast, when the stored state
and VSL match, the current is two orders of magnitude lower than the mismatched case, resulting
in a discharge time that is more than 100 times longer, allowing for a clear distinction between the
stored "0" and "1" states. In the case of the "X" state, the current is more than an order of magnitude
lower than 1 μA, which yields a discharge time more than 10 times longer compared to the
mismatched case. This difference in discharge times enables reliable TCAM operation with clear
state distinction, as reflected in Figure 4d. The charge in the capacitor is quickly discharged,
lowering the ML voltage only when the stored state and VSL do not match. Conversely, when the
stored state matches VSL or is “X”, the capacitor charge and thus the ML voltage are retained.
   This demonstration of full TCAM functionality using a single ambipolar FeFET as the core
component represents a significant advancement in reducing the number of components required,
especially when compared to conventional silicon CMOS-based TCAM designs. As shown in
Figure 4e, traditional TCAM configurations typically require more than 10 transistors80. Recent
developments using alternative technologies, such as resistive random-access memory (RRAM)81,
phase-change memory (PCM)82, or even unipolar FeFETs83,84, have managed to lower the number
of components to around 4 or 2 components. However, the ambipolar FeFET-based TCAM
presented here stands out as the most compact design, requiring only a single ambipolar FeFET
(Figure 4e), which significantly simplifies the circuit architecture while maintaining functionality.
This reduction in component count could offer substantial benefits in terms of integration density
and power efficiency when scaled to large arrays and implemented in highly miniaturized devices.


Conclusion
In summary, we have demonstrated a scalable array of single-gate reconfigurable devices capable
of switching between p-type and n-type FETs as well as NVMs, based on CMOS BEOL-
compatible SWCNT/AlScN FeFETs. The strong spontaneous polarization of AlScN, combined
with the excellent ambipolarity of the SWCNT channel, enabled high and balanced on-state current
densities (~270 μA μm−1 at a drain voltage of 3 V) and wide memory windows (0.26 V nm−1 and
0.08 V nm−1, respectively) in both the hole and electron conduction regimes. These performance
metrics are among the highest reported for ambipolar FeFETs with different channel materials and


                                                  15
ferroelectric combinations. Leveraging the reliable reconfiguration between p-type and n-type
FETs, a TCAM cell could be constructed with significantly fewer devices compared to
conventional MOSFETs with fixed polarities and other recent technologies, highlighting the
potential of SWCNT FeFETs for miniaturized, low-power circuit applications. Our work promises
the realization of high-performance reconfigurable devices based on highly scalable 1D
semiconductors and III-nitride ferroelectric films, creating opportunities for post-Moore’s Law
innovations.


Methods
Production of aligned semiconducting SWCNT films
Aligned semiconducting SWCNT films were produced based on a procedure reported in a previous
work29. First, high-purity (>99.9999%) semiconducting SWCNT dispersions were obtained by
sorting arc-discharged CNT powders, which consist of a mixture of semiconducting and metallic
CNTs, as well as metallic catalysts used for CNT synthesis. Commercially purchased arc-
discharged CNT powders (AP-SWNT from Carbon Solutions, Inc.) were dissolved in in toluene
with the presence of conjugated poly[9-(1-octylonoyl)-9H-carbazole-2,7-diyl] (PCz) molecules as
dispersants, followed by multiple iterations of ultracentrifugation, rinsing with tetrahydrofuran,
and redispersion in 1,1,2-trichloroethane to enrich semiconducting SWCNTs with diameters
narrowly distributed around 1.5 nm. Next, the resulting SWCNTs were assembled into an aligned
film using dip coating in the presence of interfacial confinement. Specifically, after vertically
dipping a 4-inch 300 nm SiO2/Si wafer into the dispersion, 2-butene-1,4-diol, which is immiscible
with the subphase 1,1,2-trichloroethane but can interact with the PCz-wrapped SWCNTs, was
spread around the interface between the wafer, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, and air. Because SWCNTs
in the 1,1,2-trichloroethane did not stick to the wafer surface, only the SWCNTs confined at the
1,1,2-trichloroethane/2-butene-1,4-diol/wafer interface were deposited on the wafer during the
withdrawal stage while SWCNTs were continually supplied from the 1,1,2-trichloroethane
subphase. The wafer was withdrawn at a speed of 2 μm s−1, resulting in a dense, monolayer film
of highly aligned SWCNTs.


AlScN growth
AlScN (Al0.68Sc0.32N) films were deposited on 4-inch Si (100) wafers coated with 300 nm of SiO2,


                                               16
a 10 nm Ti seed/adhesion layer, and a 150 nm Pt film with a (111) crystal orientation (Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si)
(MTI Corporation) using a pulsed DC deposition system (CLUSTERLINE® 200 II, Evatec). In
specific, the AlScN deposition processes were performed via 150 kHz pulsed DC co-sputtering of
Al and Sc targets with 20 sccm N2 flow under 8.3 × 10−4 mbar in the sputtering chamber. The
chamber temperature was maintained at 350 °C, which is a back-end-of-line (BEOL)-compatible
thermal budget. The AlScN/Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si substrates used in this work were from the same wafer
used in our previous works35,36.


Devices fabrication
To fabricate ferroelectric field-effect transistors, the aligned SWCNT film was first transferred
from the 300 nm SiO2/Si substrate onto an AlScN/Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si substrate using the poly(methyl
methacrylate) (PMMA)-assisted wet transfer method52,53. Specifically, a 640-nm thick PMMA
support layer was coated on a ~1 cm2 piece of the aligned SWCNT/300 nm SiO2/Si wafer by spin
coating a 8% PMMA solution in anisole (495 PMMA A8, Kayaku Advanced Materials Inc.) at
2500 rpm for 60 s, followed by baking on a hot plate at 180 °C for 5 minutes. The PMMA/SWCNT
bilayer film was then released from the substrate by etching the SiO2 layer with 2M KOH (Sigma
Aldrich) at 60 °C for approximately 90 minutes. The PMMA/SWCNT stack was floated
sequentially on three baths of deionized water to rinse off residual KOH from the surface of
SWCNT and then transferred on a 2:1 volume mixture of water and isopropanol (IPA). The
addition of IPA was critical for reducing the surface tension of the liquid, enabling the transfer of
PMMA/SWCNT onto the hydrophobic surface of AlScN85,86. After etching the aluminum capping
layer from the AlScN/Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si substrate using 1% hydrofluoric acid, the PMMA/SWCNT
film was immediately transferred on the AlScN surface by dipping the substrate into the water/IPA
mixture and scooping the bilayer stack. Following solvent evaporation, the PMMA layer was
removed from the SWCNT film using acetone and IPA. Subsequently, the sample was annealed
at 350 °C with a 100 sccm H2/Ar (15 % H2, balance Ar) flow for 2 hours to further remove residual
PMMA.
   Next, the electrode and channel fabrication was carried out using electron-beam lithography
with a bilayer PMMA resist. The resist coating process involved spin coating a 4% PMMA
solution in anisole (495 PMMA A4, Kayaku Advanced Materials Inc.) at 2500 rpm for 60 seconds
and baking at 180 °C for 5 minutes, followed by spin coating an 8% PMMA solution (495 PMMA



                                                 17
A8, Kayaku Advanced Materials Inc.) at 2500 rpm for 60 seconds and a second baking at 180 °C
for 5 minutes. To define source and drain electrode regions, the PMMA layer was patterned using
an electron beam accelerated at 50 kV in an electron-beam lithography system (Elionix ELS-
7500EX, Elionix Inc.) and developed in a 1:3 volume ratio mixture of methyl isobutyl ketone
(MIBK)/IPA for 40 seconds. Then, contact metals were deposited using an electron-beam
evaporation tool (PVD 75 electron-beam evaporator, Kurt J. Lesker Company). For gold and
palladium contact devices, 50 nm of gold or palladium was deposited at a rate of 0.2 Å s−1 for the
first 20 nm and then at a rate of 2 Å s−1 for the remaining 30 nm. Chromium and titanium contact
devices were fabricated by depositing 20 nm of chromium or titanium at a rate of 0.2 Å s−1,
followed by the deposition of a 30 nm gold capping layer at a rate of 2 Å s−1 to prevent oxidation
of the contact metal upon exposure to ambient air. After the metal deposition, the PMMA layer
was removed from the SWCNT film via lift-off using acetone, resulting in an array of source and
drain electrodes in areas that were not covered by the patterned PMMA. To define channels in the
SWCNT film, another bilayer PMMA resist was spin-coated onto the sample using 4% and 8%
PMMA solutions, followed by electron-beam lithography and development in a 1:3 mixture of
MIBK/IPA. SWCNTs in regions outside the PMMA patterns were etched by performing reactive
ion etching (Jupiter II tabletop reactive ion etcher, March Instruments) with oxygen gas (flow rate:
90 sccm) at a power of 100 W for 40 s. Then, PMMA was removed from the surface using acetone
to complete the device fabrication.


Electrical characterization of devices
Electrical measurements were conducted at room temperature using a probe station connected to
a semiconductor parameter analyzer (Keithley 4200A-SCS parameter analyzer, Tektronix Inc.).
Current-voltage characteristics of devices in ambient conditions were analyzed using a Cascade
Microtech MPS 150 probe station (FormFactor Inc.), while those under vacuum were measured
using an HP1000V-MPS+ probe station (Instec Inc.).


Raman spectroscopy
Polarized Raman spectra of aligned SWCNT films were obtained using a confocal Raman
spectrometer (LabRAM HR Evolution, Horiba Scientific) equipped with a 633 nm laser excitation
source and a 100× objective lens. The incident laser from the source was linearly polarized using


                                                18
a polarizer, with the polarization angle controlled by a half-wave plate. Samples were excited with
a power below 2 mW to minimize damage to SWCNTs. Raman scattering signals from the sample
were dispersed by a diffraction grating with 600 grooves per millimeter and recorded by a charged-
coupled device (CCD) detector.


Microscopy
Optical microscope images of devices were obtained using a bright-field optical microscope
(Olympus BX51, Olympus Corporation). The surface topography of aligned SWCNT films was
characterized using an atomic force microscope (Bruker ICON, Bruker Corporation) operated in
tapping mode.


Acknowledgements
This work was primarily supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research GHz-THz
program (FA9550-23-1-0391). D.R. acknowledges primary support from the Korea Institute for
Advancement of Technology (KIAT) grant funded by the Korea Government (MOTIE) (P0017305,
Human Resource Development Program for Industrial Innovation (Global)) and BrainLink
program funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT through the National Research Foundation of
Korea (RS-2023-00237308). S.S. acknowledges support from the Institute for Basic Science (IBS-
R036-D1). This work was carried out in part at the Singh Center for Nanotechnology at the
University of Pennsylvania, which is supported by the NSF National Nanotechnology Coordinated
Infrastructure Program under grant NNCI-2025608.


Author contributions
D.J. supervised all aspects of the project and collaboration. D.R., K.-H.K., D.J., and R.H.O.
conceived the idea of integrating large-area SWCNTs with AlScN for the scalable fabrication of
unipolar and ambipolar FeFET arrays, as well as for the realization of reconfigurable device
applications. D.R. and K.-H.K. designed the experiments and performed device fabrication. D.R.
conducted materials characterization of SWCNT channels, including AFM and polarized Raman
spectroscopy. K.-H.K. performed circuit simulations for the application of reconfigurable SWCNT
FeFETs in TCAM. D.R., K.-H.K., and S.S. conducted current-voltage measurements, and
retention tests. R.H.O. supervised the growth process of AlScN films and J.Z. performed AlScN


                                                19
deposition and characterization. L.-M.P. provided films of aligned semiconducting SWCNTs.
D.R., K.-H.K., and D.J. analyzed the data, prepared figures, and wrote the manuscript. J.K.
supervised materials integration and device characterization. All the authors contributed to the
discussion/analysis of the results and manuscript writing.


Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.




                                                20
References
1.    López, C. Artificial intelligence and advanced materials. Adv. Mater. 35, 2208683 (2023).
2.    Sugiura, T., Yamamura, K., Watanabe, Y., Yamakiri, S. & Nakano, N. Circuits and devices
      for standalone large-scale integration (LSI) chips and Internet of Things (IoT) applications:
      A review. Chip 2, 100048 (2023).
3.    Ratnesh, R. K., Goel, A., Kaushik, G., Garg, H., Chandan, Singh, M., et al. Advancement
      and challenges in MOSFET scaling. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 134, 106002 (2021).
4.    Ferain, I., Colinge, C. A. & Colinge, J.-P. Multigate transistors as the future of classical
      metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistors. Nature 479, 310-316 (2011).
5.    Beckers, A., Jazaeri, F. & Enz, C. Theoretical limit of low temperature subthreshold swing
      in field-effect transistors. IEEE Electron Device Lett. 41, 276-279 (2020).
6.    Mikolajick, T., Galderisi, G., Simon, M., Rai, S., Kumar, A., Heinzig, A., et al. 20 Years
      of reconfigurable field-effect transistors: From concepts to future applications. Solid State
      Electron. 186, 108036 (2021).
7.    Mikolajick, T., Galderisi, G., Rai, S., Simon, M., Böckle, R., Sistani, M., et al.
      Reconfigurable field effect transistors: A technology enablers perspective. Solid State
      Electron. 194, 108381 (2022).
8.    Heinzig, A., Slesazeck, S., Kreupl, F., Mikolajick, T. & Weber, W. M. Reconfigurable
      silicon nanowire transistors. Nano Lett. 12, 119-124 (2012).
9.    Marchi, M. D., Sacchetto, D., Frache, S., Zhang, J., Gaillardon, P. E., Leblebici, Y., et al.
      Polarity control in double-gate, gate-all-around vertically stacked silicon nanowire FETs.
      2012 International Electron Devices Meeting; 2012. p. 8.4.1-8.4.4.
10.   Trommer, J., Heinzig, A., Baldauf, T., Mikolajick, T., Weber, W. M., Raitza, M., et al.
      Reconfigurable nanowire transistors with multiple independent gates for efficient and
      programmable combinational circuits. 2016 Design, Automation & Test in Europe
      Conference & Exhibition; 2016. p. 169-174.
11.   Lim, D. & Kim, S. Polarity control of carrier injection for nanowire feedback field-effect
      transistors. Nano Res. 12, 2509-2514 (2019).
12.   Lim, D., Cho, K. & Kim, S. Reconfigurable logic-in-memory using silicon transistors. Adv.
      Mater. Technol. 7, 2101504 (2022).
13.   Qian, W., Wang, J., Xu, J. & Yu, L. Channel-bias-controlled reconfigurable silicon
      nanowire transistors via an asymmetric electrode contact strategy. Chip 3, 100098 (2024).
14.   Amarú, L., Gaillardon, P. E. & Micheli, G. D. A circuit synthesis flow for controllable-
      polarity transistors. IEEE Trans. Nanotechnol. 13, 1074-1083 (2014).
15.   Raitza, M., Kumar, A., Völp, M., Walter, D., Trommer, J., Mikolajick, T., et al. Exploiting
      transistor-level reconfiguration to optimize combinational circuits. Design, Automation &
      Test in Europe Conference & Exhibition; 2017. p. 338-343.
16.   Rai, S., Trommer, J., Raitza, M., Mikolajick, T., Weber, W. M. & Kumar, A. Designing
      efficient circuits based on runtime-reconfigurable field-effect transistors. IEEE Trans. Very
      Large Scale Integr. VLSI Syst. 27, 560-572 (2019).
17.   Gore, G., Cadareanu, P., Giacomin, E. & Gaillardon, P. E. A predictive process design kit
      for three-independent-gate field-effect transistors. 2019 IFIP/IEEE 27th International
      Conference on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI-SoC); 2019. p. 172-177.
18.   Fei, W., Trommer, J., Lemme, M. C., Mikolajick, T. & Heinzig, A. Emerging
      reconfigurable electronic devices based on two-dimensional materials: A review. InfoMat
      4, e12355 (2022).


                                               21
19.   Trommer, J., Heinzig, A., Slesazeck, S., Mikolajick, T. & Weber, W. M. Elementary
      aspects for circuit implementation of reconfigurable nanowire transistors. IEEE Electron
      Device Lett. 35, 141-143 (2014).
20.   Barber, H. D. Effective mass and intrinsic concentration in silicon. Solid State Electron.
      10, 1039-1051 (1967).
21.   Green, M. A. Intrinsic concentration, effective densities of states, and effective mass in
      silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 67, 2944-2954 (1990).
22.   Hu, W., Sheng, Z., Hou, X., Chen, H., Zhang, Z., Zhang, D. W., et al. Ambipolar 2D
      semiconductors and emerging device applications. Small Methods 5, 2000837 (2021).
23.   Wei, T., Han, Z., Zhong, X., Xiao, Q., Liu, T. & Xiang, D. Two dimensional
      semiconducting materials for ultimately scaled transistors. iScience 25, (2022).
24.   Lin, Y., Cao, Y., Ding, S., Zhang, P., Xu, L., Liu, C., et al. Scaling aligned carbon nanotube
      transistors to a sub-10 nm node. Nat. Electron. 6, 506-515 (2023).
25.   Rhee, D., Jariwala, D., Cho, J. H. & Kang, J. Solution-processed 2D van der Waals
      networks: Fabrication strategies, properties, and scalable device applications. Appl. Phys.
      Rev. 11, 021310 (2024).
26.   Zorn, N. F. & Zaumseil, J. Charge transport in semiconducting carbon nanotube networks.
      Appl. Phys. Rev. 8, 041318 (2021).
27.   Zhang, Z., Wang, S., Wang, Z., Ding, L., Pei, T., Hu, Z., et al. Almost perfectly symmetric
      SWCNT-based CMOS devices and scaling. ACS Nano 3, 3781-3787 (2009).
28.   Peng, L.-M., Zhang, Z. & Wang, S. Carbon nanotube electronics: Recent advances. Mater.
      Today 17, 433-442 (2014).
29.   Liu, L., Han, J., Xu, L., Zhou, J., Zhao, C., Ding, S., et al. Aligned, high-density
      semiconducting carbon nanotube arrays for high-performance electronics. Science 368,
      850-856 (2020).
30.   Shulaker, M. M., Hills, G., Park, R. S., Howe, R. T., Saraswat, K., Wong, H. S. P., et al.
      Three-dimensional integration of nanotechnologies for computing and data storage on a
      single chip. Nature 547, 74-78 (2017).
31.   Bishop, M. D., Hills, G., Srimani, T., Lau, C., Murphy, D., Fuller, S., et al. Fabrication of
      carbon nanotube field-effect transistors in commercial silicon manufacturing facilities. Nat.
      Electron. 3, 492-501 (2020).
32.   Li, X., Zhang, L., Wang, X., Shimoyama, I., Sun, X., Seo, W.-S., et al. Langmuir−Blodgett
      assembly of densely aligned single-walled carbon nanotubes from bulk materials. J. Am.
      Chem. Soc. 129, 4890-4891 (2007).
33.   Shekhar, S., Stokes, P. & Khondaker, S. I. Ultrahigh density alignment of carbon nanotube
      arrays by dielectrophoresis. ACS Nano 5, 1739-1746 (2011).
34.   Cao, Q., Han, S.-j., Tulevski, G. S., Zhu, Y., Lu, D. D. & Haensch, W. Arrays of single-
      walled carbon nanotubes with full surface coverage for high-performance electronics. Nat.
      Nanotechnol. 8, 180-186 (2013).
35.   Kim, K.-H., Oh, S., Fiagbenu, M. M. A., Zheng, J., Musavigharavi, P., Kumar, P., et al.
      Scalable CMOS back-end-of-line-compatible AlScN/two-dimensional channel
      ferroelectric field-effect transistors. Nat. Nanotechnol. 18, 1044-1050 (2023).
36.   Kim, K.-H., Song, S., Kim, B., Musavigharavi, P., Trainor, N., Katti, K., et al. Tuning
      polarity in WSe2/AlScN FeFETs via contact engineering. ACS Nano 18, 4180-4188 (2024).
37.   Sakurai, T., Yoshimura, T., Akita, S., Fujimura, N. & Nakayama, Y. Single-wall carbon
      nanotube field effect transistors with non-volatile memory operation. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.



                                               22
      45, L1036 (2006).
38.   Sun, Y., Xie, D., Dai, R., Sun, M., Li, W. & Ren, T. Ferroelectric polarization effect on
      hysteresis behaviors of single-walled carbon nanotube network field-effect transistors with
      lead zirconate-titanate gating. Curr. Appl. Phys. 18, 324-328 (2018).
39.   Fu, W., Xu, Z., Bai, X., Gu, C. & Wang, E. Intrinsic memory function of carbon nanotube-
      based ferroelectric field-effect transistor. Nano Lett. 9, 921-925 (2009).
40.   Fu, W. Y., Xu, Z., Liu, L., Bai, X. D. & Wang, E. G. Two-bit ferroelectric field-effect
      transistor memories assembled on individual nanotubes. Nanotechnology 20, 475305
      (2009).
41.   Tan, Q., Wang, J., Zhong, X., Wang, Q., Liu, Y., Shi, J., et al. Carbon nanotube nonvolatile
      thin-film transistors with (Bi,Nd)4Ti3O12 gate insulators. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 61,
      2628-2632 (2014).
42.   Tan, Q., Wang, Q., Liu, Y., Yan, H., Cai, W. & Yang, Z. Single-walled carbon nanotube
      dominated micron-wide stripe patterned-based ferroelectric field-effect transistors with
      HfO2 defect control layer. Nanoscale Res. Lett. 13, 127 (2018).
43.   Son, J. Y., Ryu, S., Park, Y.-C., Lim, Y.-T., Shin, Y.-S., Shin, Y.-H., et al. A nonvolatile
      memory device made of a ferroelectric polymer gate nanodot and a single-walled carbon
      nanotube. ACS Nano 4, 7315-7320 (2010).
44.   Sun, Y.-L., Xie, D., Xu, J.-L., Zhang, C., Dai, R.-X., Li, X., et al. Controllable hysteresis
      and threshold voltage of single-walled carbon nanotube transistors with ferroelectric
      polymer top-gate insulators. Sci. Rep. 6, 23090 (2016).
45.   Li, M., Liu, Z., Sun, Y., Ding, Y., Chen, H., Zhang, W., et al. Tailoring neuroplasticity in
      a ferroelectric-gated multi-terminal synaptic transistor through bi-directional modulation
      for improved pattern edge recognition. Adv. Funct. Mater. 33, 2307986 (2023).
46.   Duong, D. L., Lee, S. M. & Lee, Y. H. Origin of unipolarity in carbon nanotube field effect
      transistors. J. Mater. Chem. 22, 1994-1997 (2012).
47.   Aguirre, C. M., Levesque, P. L., Paillet, M., Lapointe, F., St-Antoine, B. C., Desjardins, P.,
      et al. The role of the oxygen/water redox couple in suppressing electron conduction in
      field-effect transistors. Adv. Mater. 21, 3087-3091 (2009).
48.   Fichtner, S., Wolff, N., Lofink, F., Kienle, L. & Wagner, B. AlScN: A III-V semiconductor
      based ferroelectric. J. Appl. Phys. 125, 114103 (2019).
49.   Asapu, S., Pagaduan, J. N., Zhuo, Y., Moon, T., Midya, R., Gao, D., et al. Large remnant
      polarization and great reliability characteristics in W/HZO/W ferroelectric capacitors.
      Front. Mater. 9, (2022).
50.   Lederer, M., Lehninger, D., Ali, T. & Kämpfe, T. Review on the microstructure of
      ferroelectric hafnium oxides. Phys. Status Solidi - Rapid Res. Lett. 16, 2200168 (2022).
51.   Liu, X., Wang, D., Kim, K.-H., Katti, K., Zheng, J., Musavigharavi, P., et al. Post-CMOS
      compatible aluminum scandium nitride/2D channel ferroelectric field-effect-transistor
      memory. Nano Lett. 21, 3753-3761 (2021).
52.   Rhee, D., Han, B., Jung, M., Kim, J., Song, O. & Kang, J. Hierarchical nanoscale
      structuring of solution-processed 2D van der Waals networks for wafer-scale, stretchable
      electronics. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces. 14, 57153-57164 (2022).
53.   Rhee, D., Lee, Y.-A. L. & Odom, T. W. Area-specific, hierarchical nanowrinkling of two-
      dimensional materials. ACS Nano 17, 6781-6788 (2023).
54.   Ofuonye, B., Lee, J., Yan, M., Sun, C., Zuo, J.-M. & Adesida, I. Electrical and
      microstructural properties of thermally annealed Ni/Au and Ni/Pt/Au Schottky contacts on



                                               23
      AlGaN/GaN heterostructures. Semicond. Sci. Technol. 29, 095005 (2014).
55.   Schulman, D. S., Arnold, A. J. & Das, S. Contact engineering for 2D materials and devices.
      Chem. Soc. Rev. 47, 3037-3058 (2018).
56.   Hirana, Y., Juhasz, G., Miyauchi, Y., Mouri, S., Matsuda, K. & Nakashima, N. Empirical
      prediction of electronic potentials of single-walled carbon nanotubes with a specific
      chirality (n,m). Sci. Rep. 3, 2959 (2013).
57.   Das, S., Chen, H.-Y., Penumatcha, A. V. & Appenzeller, J. High performance multilayer
      MoS2 transistors with scandium contacts. Nano Lett. 13, 100-105 (2013).
58.   Mleczko, M. J., Yu, A. C., Smyth, C. M., Chen, V., Shin, Y. C., Chatterjee, S., et al.
      Contact engineering high-performance n-type MoTe2 transistors. Nano Lett. 19, 6352-6362
      (2019).
59.   Kim, S. Y., Park, S. & Choi, W. Variability of electrical contact properties in multilayer
      MoS2 thin-film transistors. Appl. Phys. A 117, 761-766 (2014).
60.   Popov, I., Seifert, G. & Tománek, D. Designing electrical contacts to MoS2 monolayers: A
      computational study. Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 156802 (2012).
61.   Qiu, H., Pan, L., Yao, Z., Li, J., Shi, Y. & Wang, X. Electrical characterization of back-
      gated bi-layer MoS2 field-effect transistors and the effect of ambient on their performances.
      Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 123104 (2012).
62.   Matsuda, Y., Deng, W.-Q. & Goddard, W. A. Contact resistance properties between
      nanotubes and various metals from quantum mechanics. J. Phys. Chem. C 111, 11113-
      11116 (2007).
63.   Hsu, A. L., Koch, R. J., Ong, M. T., Fang, W., Hofmann, M., Kim, K. K., et al. Surface-
      induced hybridization between graphene and titanium. ACS Nano 8, 7704-7713 (2014).
64.   Felten, A., Suarez-Martinez, I., Ke, X., Van Tendeloo, G., Ghijsen, J., Pireaux, J.-J., et al.
      The role of oxygen at the interface between titanium and carbon nanotubes.
      ChemPhysChem 10, 1799-1804 (2009).
65.   Luo, J., Xu, W., Fu, B., Yu, Z., Yang, M., Li, Y., et al. A novel ambipolar ferroelectric
      tunnel FinFET based content addressable memory with ultra-low hardware cost and high
      energy efficiency for machine learning. 2022 IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits; 2022.
      p. 226-227.
66.   Zhang, Z., Mao, S., Xu, G., Zhang, Q., Wu, Z., Yin, H., et al. An ultra-dense one-transistor
      ternary-content-addressable memory array based on non-volatile and ambipolar fin field-
      effect transistors. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 70, 1029-1033 (2023).
67.   Naber, R. C. G., Blom, P. W. M., Gelinck, G. H., Marsman, A. W. & de Leeuw, D. M. An
      organic field-effect transistor with programmable polarity. Adv. Mater. 17, 2692-2695
      (2005).
68.   Zheng, Y., Ni, G.-X., Toh, C.-T., Zeng, M.-G., Chen, S.-T., Yao, K., et al. Gate-controlled
      nonvolatile graphene-ferroelectric memory. Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 163505 (2009).
69.   Hassanpour Amiri, M., Heidler, J., Müllen, K. & Asadi, K. Design rules for memories
      based on graphene ferroelectric field-effect transistors. ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 2, 2-8
      (2020).
70.   Li, D., Wang, X., Chen, Y., Zhu, S., Gong, F., Wu, G., et al. The ambipolar evolution of a
      high-performance WSe2 transistor assisted by a ferroelectric polymer. Nanotechnology 29,
      105202 (2018).
71.   Baeumer, C., Rogers, S. P., Xu, R., Martin, L. W. & Shim, M. Tunable carrier type and
      density in graphene/PbZr0.2Ti0.8O3 hybrid structures through ferroelectric switching. Nano



                                               24
      Lett. 13, 1693-1698 (2013).
72.   Lipatov, A., Fursina, A., Vo, T. H., Sharma, P., Gruverman, A. & Sinitskii, A. Polarization-
      dependent electronic transport in graphene/Pb(Zr,Ti)O3 ferroelectric field-effect transistors.
      Adv. Electron. Mater. 3, 1700020 (2017).
73.   Rajapitamahuni, A., Hoffman, J., Ahn, C. H. & Hong, X. Examining graphene field-effect
      sensors for ferroelectric thin film studies. Nano Lett. 13, 4374-4379 (2013).
74.   Yusuf, M. H., Nielsen, B., Dawber, M. & Du, X. Extrinsic and intrinsic charge trapping at
      the graphene/ferroelectric interface. Nano Lett. 14, 5437-5444 (2014).
75.   Wan, S., Li, Y., Li, W., Mao, X., Wang, C., Chen, C., et al. Nonvolatile ferroelectric
      memory effect in ultrathin α-In2Se3. Adv. Funct. Mater. 29, 1808606 (2019).
76.   Ghani, M. A., Sarkar, S., Li, Y., Wang, Y., Watanabe, K., Taniguchi, T., et al. Ferroelectric
      field effect transistors based on two-dimensional CuInP2S6 (CIPS) and graphene
      heterostructures. MRS Energy Sustain., (2024).
77.   Ram, A., Maity, K., Marchand, C., Mahmoudi, A., Kshirsagar, A. R., Soliman, M., et al.
      Reconfigurable multifunctional van der Waals ferroelectric devices and logic circuits. ACS
      Nano 17, 21865-21877 (2023).
78.   Cao, Q., Kim, H.-s., Pimparkar, N., Kulkarni, J. P., Wang, C., Shim, M., et al. Medium-
      scale carbon nanotube thin-film integrated circuits on flexible plastic substrates. Nature
      454, 495-500 (2008).
79.   Ha, M., Xia, Y., Green, A. A., Zhang, W., Renn, M. J., Kim, C. H., et al. Printed, sub-3V
      digital circuits on plastic from aqueous carbon nanotube inks. ACS Nano 4, 4388-4395
      (2010).
80.   Jeloka, S., Akesh, N. B., Sylvester, D. & Blaauw, D. A 28 nm configurable memory
      (TCAM/BCAM/SRAM) using push-rule 6T bit cell enabling logic-in-memory. IEEE J.
      Solid-State Circuits 51, 1009-1021 (2016).
81.   Pan, K., Tosson, A. M. S., Wang, N., Zhou, N. Y. & Wei, L. A novel cascadable TCAM
      using RRAM and current race scheme for high-speed energy-efficient applications. IEEE
      Trans. Nanotechnol. 22, 214-221 (2023).
82.   Li, J., Montoye, R. K., Ishii, M. & Chang, L. 1 Mb 0.41 µm² 2T-2R cell nonvolatile TCAM
      with two-bit encoding and clocked self-referenced sensing. IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits 49,
      896-907 (2014).
83.   Dutta, S., Khanna, A., Ye, H., Sharifi, M. M., Kazemi, A., Jose, M. S., et al. Lifelong
      learning with monolithic 3D ferroelectric ternary content-addressable memory. 2021 IEEE
      International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM); 2021. p. 1-4.
84.   Yin, X., Ni, K., Reis, D., Datta, S., Niemier, M. & Hu, X. S. An ultra-dense 2FeFET TCAM
      design based on a multi-domain FeFET model. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II 66, 1577-1581
      (2019).
85.   Cha, S., Cha, M., Lee, S., Kang, J. H. & Kim, C. Low-temperature, dry transfer-printing
      of a patterned graphene monolayer. Sci. Rep. 5, 17877 (2015).
86.   Rhee, D., Paci, J. T., Deng, S., Lee, W.-K., Schatz, G. C. & Odom, T. W. Soft skin layers
      enable area-specific, multiscale graphene wrinkles with switchable orientations. ACS Nano
      14, 166-174 (2020).




                                               25
                                             Supplementary Information

          Reconfigurable SWCNT ferroelectric field-effect transistor arrays


Dongjoon Rhee,1,2,7 Kwan-Ho Kim,1,7 Jeffrey Zheng,3 Seunguk Song,1,4,5 Lian-Mao Peng,6 Roy H.
Olsson III,1 Joohoon Kang,2,* and Deep Jariwala1,*

1
    Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA, USA
2
    School of Advanced Materials Science and Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU),
Suwon 16419, Republic of Korea
3
    Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA, USA
4
    Department of Energy Science, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Suwon 16419, Republic of
Korea
5
    Center for 2D Quantum Heterostructures, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Sungkyunkwan
University (SKKU), Suwon 16419, Republic of Korea
6
    Center for Carbon-Based Electronics, School of Electronics, Peking University, Beijing, China

7
    These authors contributed equally: Dongjoon Rhee, Kwan-Ho Kim

*Corresponding author: Deep Jariwala (email: dmj@seas.upenn.edu), Joohoon Kang (email:
joohoon@skku.edu)


Device fabrication process .......................................................................................................... 27
Surface topography of aligned SWCNT film ........................................................................... 28
Expected energy levels for SWCNT channel and contact metals ........................................... 29
Transfer curves of SWCNT FeFETs and FETs measured in ambient .................................. 30
Device-to-device uniformity in the memory window of SWCNT FeFETs ............................ 34
TCAM simulations using Cadence Virtuoso ............................................................................ 35
Supplemenary information references ...................................................................................... 37




                                                                  26
Device fabrication process




                                                               PMMA film
        SWCNT                                                                                                       AlScN on
                       PMMA                                                                                        Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si
                       solution
                                                               2M KOH                                  Water/IPA
                       SiO2/Si             Coat PMMA;                           Etch SiO2;
                                           Float on KOH                         Rinse with water
                                                          Electrode-patterned                                 Transfer SWCNT;
                Electrodes                                   PMMA resist                                      Remove PMMA


                                                                                                        SWCNT


                                       Deposit metal;                           Pattern PMMA       AlScN/Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si
                                       Lift-off PMMA
   Channel-patterned        Pattern PMMA
     PMMA resist                                                                            SWCNT/AlScN FeFET arrays



                                       Etch SWCNT                               Remove PMMA


 Figure S1. Overall process to fabricate SWCNT FeFET arrays.




                                                                27
Surface topography of aligned SWCNT film



                                a                Center region              b Film/SiO2 boundary

                                                                                                            5 nm


                                                                                  Aligned SWCNT



                                             Alignment direction
                                                                                        SiO2                0 nm
                                                                500 nm                           500 nm

                                c
                                             3
                                      (nm)
                               Height(nm)




                                             2
                              Height




                                                                                               1.7 nm
                                             1

                                             0
                                             0.0          0.5         1.0         1.5          2.0
                                                                    Distance (μm)

 Figure S2. Aligned SWCNT film assembled on a SiO2/Si wafer before transfer. AFM
 topography images of the film (a) in the center region and (b) at the boundary between the
 film and SiO2. (c) Height profile along the blue line marked in the AFM image in panel (b).
 The measured film thickness (~1.7 nm) confirms the monolayer assembly of SWCNTs,
 considering that the average diameter of the SWCNTs used in this study was ~1.5 nm and that
 AFM tends to overestimate the thickness.




            a Transferred on SiO2                           b                 Transferred on AlScN
                                                                Before transfer                 After transfer
                                                   5 nm                                                                      15 nm




               Alignment direction                                                                   Alignment direction
                                                   0 nm                                                                      0 nm
                               500 nm                                              500 nm                           500 nm


 Figure S3. Aligned SWCNT film after transfer. AFM topography images of the film
 transferred on (a) 50-nm SiO2 film thermally grown on a Si wafer and (b) 45-nm AlScN film
 deposited on a Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si wafer.




                                                                         28
Expected energy levels for SWCNT channel and contact metals




 Figure S4. Band diagram depicting expected energy level alignment of SWCNT channel
 and contact metals before contact.




                                         29
Transfer curves of SWCNT FeFETs and FETs measured in ambient

Supplementary Note 1. Transfer characteristics under different VGS sweep ranges
   The use of high work function contact metals with a Fermi level lower than the valence band
minimum of the SWCNT channel (EV = −4.75 eV1 with respect to the vacuum level), such as Au
(EF = −5.1 eV2) and Pd (EF = −5.2 eV3), allowed us to fabricate p-type FeFETs (Figure S4). We
observed that the hysteresis behavior depended on the range of the VGS sweep applied to measure
transfer curves. When the range of gate voltage sweep was narrow (VGS ≤ ±5 V at VDS = −0.1 V),
Au- and Pd-contacted SWCNT FeFETs exhibited a small, counterclockwise hysteresis in the
transfer curves (Figure S5a,b). This counterclockwise hysteresis is attributed to charge trapping
and detrapping processes associated with residual water and oxygen molecules at the interface
between the SWCNT channel and AlScN layer possibly introduced during the aqueous solution-
based etching of the aluminum capping layer and transfer process4-6. As the gate voltage sweep
range widened to VGS = ±8 V, the direction of hysteresis changed to clockwise due to the onset of
partial ferroelectric switching in AlScN7. The ferroelectricity-induced hysteresis became more
pronounced as the gate voltage sweep range increased (VGS ≥ ±10 V). Largest MW and Ion/Ioff ratio
were achieved with a VGS sweep range of ±15 V, where the ferroelectric polarization could switch
between fully up and fully down states since the voltage exceeded the coercive voltage of the 45-
nm AlScN layer (~13.5 V7).
   We also investigated Ti (EF = −4.3 eV3) and Cr (EF = −4.5 eV3) as contact metals with Fermi
levels near the midpoint of the bandgap of the SWCNT channel (Figure S4), aiming to realize
ambipolar FeFETs. Notably, both Ti- and Cr-contacted SWCNT FeFETs exhibited p-type transfer
curves with counterclockwise hysteresis for a narrow gate voltage sweep of VGS = ±5 V at VDS =
−0.1 V (Figure S5c,d). This p-type behavior, rather than ambipolar, can be attributed to charge
trapping and detrapping by residual water and oxygen molecules at the SWCNT/AlScN interface,
which induce hole doping and also suppress electron conduction through electrostatic screening of
the positive gate field4,8. As the VGS sweep range increased further, the device polarity gradually
transitioned to ambipolar, with ferroelectric switching beginning to dominate the hysteresis
behavior. For Ti-contacted SWCNT FeFETs, however, ferroelectric switching was evident only
in the electron conduction region, as indicated by the hysteresis direction in the transfer curves
(Figure S5c). In addition, both Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio were more than 2 orders of magnitude lower
compared to SWCNT FeFETs with other metal contacts. The unexpected hysteresis direction in


                                                30
the hole conduction region, combined with the low Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio, may have originated from
the defective channel/electrode interface, possibly formed by a reaction between the SWCNT and
Ti9-11. In contrast, Cr-contacted FeFETs exhibited ambipolar behavior described by ferroelectric
switching both in the hole (clockwise hysteresis) and electron (counterclockwise hysteresis)
conduction regions. (Figure S5d). Furthermore, the device achieved similar current levels in both
regions, with Ion and Ion/Ioff ratio comparable to those of Au- and Pd-contacted counterparts.




 Figure S5. Transfer curves of SWCNT FeFETs fabricated using different contact metals
 measured under different gate voltage sweep ranges. (a) Au, (b) Pd, (c) Ti, and (d) Cr
 contacts. Drain voltage was fixed at VDS = −0.1 V.




                                                31
Figure S6. Transfer curves of SWCNT FeFETs fabricated using different contact metals
measured at different drain voltages. (a) Au, (b) Pd, (c) Ti, and (d) Cr contacts. Gate
voltage sweep range was VGS = ±15 V for all measurements.




Figure S7. Transfer curves of SWCNT FETs fabricated using 50-nm SiO2 gate dielectric
and different contact metals measured at different drain voltages. (a) Au and (b) Cr
contacts. Gate voltage sweep range was VGS = ±15 V for all measurements.




                                          32
                                                                          3 devices
                                                  10-4




                              Drain current (A)
                                                    -5
                                                  10
                                                  10-6
                                                  10-7
                                                  10-8
                                                  10-9 VDS = −0.1 V
                                                         -15 -10 -5   0   5   10 15
                                                              Gate voltage (V)

Figure S8. Transfer curves of p-type SWCNT FeFETs measured over multiple devices
within the array. Au was used as the contact metal.




                                                                 33
Device-to-device uniformity in the memory window of SWCNT FeFETs




 Figure S9. Histogram showing memory windows of 16 devices in the array.




                                         34
TCAM simulations using Cadence Virtuoso




 Figure S10. Description of experimental transfer curves of the SWCNT FeFET in
 Cadence.




                                          35
Figure S11. TCAM circuit diagram and simulated ML voltages for different stored
states and VSL.




                                         36
Supplemenary information references

1.    Hirana, Y., Juhasz, G., Miyauchi, Y., Mouri, S., Matsuda, K. & Nakashima, N. Empirical
      prediction of electronic potentials of single-walled carbon nanotubes with a specific
      chirality (n,m). Sci. Rep. 3, 2959 (2013).
2.    Ofuonye, B., Lee, J., Yan, M., Sun, C., Zuo, J.-M. & Adesida, I. Electrical and
      microstructural properties of thermally annealed Ni/Au and Ni/Pt/Au Schottky contacts on
      AlGaN/GaN heterostructures. Semicond. Sci. Technol. 29, 095005 (2014).
3.    Schulman, D. S., Arnold, A. J. & Das, S. Contact engineering for 2D materials and devices.
      Chem. Soc. Rev. 47, 3037-3058 (2018).
4.    Aguirre, C. M., Levesque, P. L., Paillet, M., Lapointe, F., St-Antoine, B. C., Desjardins, P.,
      et al. The role of the oxygen/water redox couple in suppressing electron conduction in
      field-effect transistors. Adv. Mater. 21, 3087-3091 (2009).
5.    Kim, W., Javey, A., Vermesh, O., Wang, Q., Li, Y. & Dai, H. Hysteresis caused by water
      molecules in carbon nanotube field-effect transistors. Nano Lett. 3, 193-198 (2003).
6.    Zhao, J., Liu, F., Huang, Q., Lu, T., Xi, M., Peng, L., et al. Charge trap-based carbon
      nanotube transistor for synaptic function mimicking. Nano Res. 14, 4258-4263 (2021).
7.    Kim, K.-H., Oh, S., Fiagbenu, M. M. A., Zheng, J., Musavigharavi, P., Kumar, P., et al.
      Scalable CMOS back-end-of-line-compatible AlScN/two-dimensional channel
      ferroelectric field-effect transistors. Nat. Nanotechnol. 18, 1044-1050 (2023).
8.    Duong, D. L., Lee, S. M. & Lee, Y. H. Origin of unipolarity in carbon nanotube field effect
      transistors. J. Mater. Chem. 22, 1994-1997 (2012).
9.    Matsuda, Y., Deng, W.-Q. & Goddard, W. A. Contact resistance properties between
      nanotubes and various metals from quantum mechanics. J. Phys. Chem. C 111, 11113-
      11116 (2007).
10.   Hsu, A. L., Koch, R. J., Ong, M. T., Fang, W., Hofmann, M., Kim, K. K., et al. Surface-
      induced hybridization between graphene and titanium. ACS Nano 8, 7704-7713 (2014).
11.   Felten, A., Suarez-Martinez, I., Ke, X., Van Tendeloo, G., Ghijsen, J., Pireaux, J.-J., et al.
      The role of oxygen at the interface between titanium and carbon nanotubes.
      ChemPhysChem 10, 1799-1804 (2009).




                                               37
